Good afternoon and
welcome to session 719,
Administering QuickTime Streaming Server.
My name is Stephen Tonna.
I'm a product manager on the
QuickTime product marketing team.
And I just want to remind you
that if you have any questions,
if you can hold them until the end,
that'd be great.
And then just line up at a
microphone so that we can have the
whole session translated properly.
And without further ado,
I'd like to introduce Chris LeCroy,
who is an engineering manager
on the server team at Apple.
Hi, I'm Chris LeCroy.
I've been working on the streaming
server since its inception.
QuickTime Streaming Server was
actually a part of the very
first release of Mac OS X Server.
It started out as
QuickTime Streaming Server version 1.
It's been in every version since then.
With Panther, we're announcing
QuickTime Streaming Server 5.
It's got some new features
that are actually pretty nice.
We've got things like
home directory support.
We've really tightened down the
security of the server so it's even
more secure than it was before.
We have written a new
administration application.
We've written a new content
management application.
We've made it more tightly integrated
with Mac OS X Server as a whole,
so it integrates with some of the
other services on Mac OS X Server.
We are going to show you a
little bit of that today.
First, I'm going to have
somebody come up and demo,
somebody, John Anderson,
demo the new admin.
We'll take a look at the
content management tools.
Then I'm going to give everybody
an opportunity to maybe fall
asleep because I'm going to go
into some advanced administration.
My goal is to see how many people
either walk out or fall asleep.
If I can do half the room,
I'm doing really well.
We're going to get
really esoteric in here.
Okay.
So the new admin.
This is a native Mac OS X application,
or it's a plug-in actually.
It's a plug-in to the
Mac OS X server admin.
So it's completely integrated with all
of the other services on the admin,
or other services on the
server inside the admin.
It's not web-based.
So in the past, I think beginning with
QuickTime Streaming Server 3,
we had a web-based admin.
This is not web-based.
This is a Mac OS X Cocoa application.
We do still provide the web-based admin,
though, and there are a couple
of reasons for that.
One is that maybe you're not
going to be on a Macintosh
when you need to administer.
So if you're on a Windows machine
or a Linux machine,
you can still get into the web-based
admin and make changes to the server.
The other reason is that
QuickTime Streaming Server is
the version of the server that
we ship with Mac OS X Server.
We also produce something
called Darwin Streaming Server,
which is really just an exact copy
of QuickTime Streaming Server.
It's the exact same source code.
The only difference is it doesn't
have all of the nice Macintosh
GUI that we are providing.
And that's an open-source project
that we provide binaries for Solaris,
Windows, Linux.
The source code is available.
It's been ported to a bunch
of different platforms.
And that's another big reason for
why the web-based UI is still there.
So I'm going to have John come
up and show you a little bit of
the new streaming server admin.
I'm John Anderson.
I work in the engineering team on UI,
basically, for QTSS.
So let me go ahead and
launch the server admin.
This is the server admin tool for
the entire Mac OS X server machine.
And you can actually use it to
administer multiple servers at once.
So you could use it to
administer an entire rack of
QuickTime Streaming Server machines.
But what I'm going to do is I'm
going to go ahead and go over
here to QuickTime Streaming.
That actually isn't stopped,
but we'll just forget we saw that.
Did you do that?
What?
Okay, here we go.
So if you go to the Connections tab,
for example,
you can see the connected users.
This is pretty similar to the
Web UI for those who have seen it.
Fairly similar functionality.
That's where you can see the
connected users and the active relays,
and you can sort them
however you want to.
And just like the Web UI,
you can see all of the logs from here,
the error log, the access log,
have easy access to those.
So you don't have to FTP into
the server to get those.
You can just get them pretty easily.
There's this graphs feature.
This is pretty cool.
This actually shows you how
many users have been connected.
The throughput is... Isn't
streaming admin tool running,
Chris?
Yeah.
Or no, maybe not.
Okay, so it would show you,
were there any users connected,
a graph over time.
And maybe, Chris,
after you run the streaming
admin tool for a while,
you can bring this up again?
You can come by and see it later.
Settings, of course,
this is the important stuff.
This is the meat of the matter.
You can set, for example,
what the root folder is,
where you put all of your media files,
what your maximum connections.
A lot of these are over
from the web as well.
One thing that is new and is pretty
significant that was not in previous
versions is this IP bindings tab.
And so this actually allows you,
if you're streaming on port 80,
of course, you can't stream on the same
IP address as an Apache server,
because that's also streaming on port 80.
So this is something
that's new in this...
QTSS admin that allows you
to specifically tell it to
bind to certain IP addresses,
and then you can go ahead and turn
on streaming on port 80 and do
multiple hosts on the same machine.
There's a better relay UI.
I'm really not going to get into
that because that's pretty complex.
And logging.
So this really gives you a lot
of the stuff from the web end.
It basically gives you everything
from the web admin and more,
and gives you some graphs
to represent some things,
and it's just a lot easier to use.
Great.
Thanks.
Actually, you might as well stay up
here because you're going to
be back in about 30 seconds.
I can do that.
Back to the slides.
So we also showed,
if you guys were at the
QuickTime keynote Tuesday,
we showed a new application
called QTSS Publisher.
And QTSS Publisher is an application
that lets you remotely manage all of
the content on your streaming service.
You may have an XServe sitting
someplace in a back room.
This application will allow you to do
things like upload all of your movies
to the server from wherever you're at,
and automatically prepare
them for the internet,
for hinted streaming,
for progressive download.
It'll help you a lot with all of
the HTML issues that you'll need
to deal with when you're trying to
get multimedia up on the internet.
It'll let you manage playlists
and edit annotations in.
This application is actually
driving some Unix tools that we
wrote that sit on the back end.
And you can use those tools yourself.
I'll show you a little bit more
about those later in the session.
But I'm going to have
John demo QTSS Publisher now.
QTSS Publisher is basically,
it's there to save you a lot of steps.
We get a lot of questions on the
mailing list where it's like,
okay, I know where my movies folder is.
I put my movie up there,
and that's kind of it.
Like, you don't really know,
where do we go from here?
So that's where QTSS Publisher
kind of fits in.
This is a client server app.
So this is installed
with the admin tools,
and you can connect either, in this case,
we're connecting to local hosts,
and of course you can also
connect to a remote server,
and that's important to emphasize,
that you can run this from anywhere,
and that you're
connecting to your server.
As you can see here from the media view,
you can see all of your media.
You can see it collated basically
as a list that you can sort through,
for example,
or you can see it as an outline so you
can see your actual file tree here.
And we also separated out, of course,
into media library and mp3 library.
And that basically is mp3
library is all your mp3s,
and your media library is basically
all your everything but mp3s.
So that's the best way of kind of
distinguishing between the two.
The streaming standards are different,
of course, for mp3 files,
it's icecast streaming, and for media,
it's RTSP.
So that's the main distinction there.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go ahead and go to the MP3 library,
and I'm going to highlight a song,
and I'm going to go to the settings view.
So here you can see all the
ID3 tags for that MP3 movie,
and you can edit them,
change them remotely.
And if you go to the URL tab,
you can see this checkbox that says
media is available for download.
So when you're working
in these libraries,
you're actually working
in a sort of staging area.
So you can go ahead
and put movies up here,
and you can upload them,
and they will not be available
to the public immediately.
So you can go ahead and change all
of your settings and everything
like that before you make them
available to the public for streaming.
So for example,
here I can go ahead and make it available
for download and apply my changes.
And this will actually give
me the URL for the MP3 file so
that I can stream it on demand.
Is there sound on this?
Give me a detailed-- Please enter
your-- So I picked a weird song,
but that's OK.
And if you do want to upload media,
then all you have to do
is go to the media view or
basically any list of content,
and you can just take a file.
I'm not really going to drag it up,
but I could just take this clipping file,
for example, and drag it in,
and then you can just pick
where you want it to go,
and it will get uploaded.
And if it's a movie file,
you don't have to worry about
making it ready for fast start.
You don't have to worry about
making it ready for hinting.
That all happens in the background
on the server as it's uploaded.
So, let's see.
So the next thing I'm going to do is
I'm going to make an MP3 playlist.
Because of course,
on-demand MP3 is one thing,
but of course another thing that
a lot of people technically will
usually do is they'll start up a
playlist so they can have basically
an MP3 radio station going.
So I can go in here
and click New Playlist,
and I'll make an MP3 playlist,
and we'll just call it My Music.
So I can go in here and, yeah,
I can either from the folder
view here or from the song view,
I can just pick.
I'm going to be really moody and
go for like a Linkin Park and
then followed it up with REM.
And I guess that's all I have
is Linkin Park and REM.
So you can see that
this is very Mac-like.
I mean, you can take things and
drag them to rearrange them.
Apparently not, but-- This is beta.
So you can drag any of these
files in that you want,
set them up, and then when you're ready,
just hit start.
And the playlists will-- oh,
I don't have a broadcast password.
OK, here's another time to see the admin.
Let's go ahead and go in here and
set an mp3 broadcast password.
So while he's doing that,
mp3 broadcast passwords
in Icecast or Shellcast,
you need to provide a password,
basically, for people to be able to
broadcast to a server.
So he's setting that right now.
And why does that matter?
Because the broadcaster that
broadcasts MP3s actually
broadcasts to the streaming server,
which then distributes out to clients.
So you've got to have a
password on that server.
So we may end up skipping the
broadcast of the My Music playlist.
Sounds like Linkin Park and REM,
basically.
Yeah, it's Linkin Park and REM.
It's probably not going to be a real
surprise to you at any point anyway.
So what we'll do is...
We'll just click OK on that error
message and go on with the demo.
Next thing we'll do is we'll
just look at some movies.
I'm going to go back to
here to the list view,
and I'm going to highlight
this losing grip movie,
which is about how I feel right now.
You can see here you can
set all the annotations.
The final version, of course,
is going to have the full
list of annotations in there.
I just put a few of them in here so far.
It's the same idea.
You can go in here and change
the movie annotations remotely,
so you don't have to download the
movie and change the annotations
and then upload it back up again.
Here you see a couple buttons here.
Media is available for streaming.
Media is available for download.
If you make something
available for download,
what it's going to do is it's
going to prepare it for free.
It's going to put it in your web server
folder and make it available there so
that it can be viewed by Fast Start.
If it's something short like a movie
trailer or a video or something,
that might work really well for that.
For example, here,
if I say make available for download...
Click on that link and you can
see by the little progress bar
that goes along here that it's
actually fast starting the movie.
What I'm going to do in this case is I'm
going to make it available for streaming.
So this is going to go through
QuickTime Streaming Server instead.
So this is going to put a hinted movie
in the QuickTime Streaming movies folder.
And so it's the same thing here.
I can click on this
URL and you get instant on.
It's already streaming.
The thing here, of course,
is that you're not going to
want to hand somebody the URL.
I mean, it's another stopping point,
right?
It's like a where do you go from here.
You've got this RTSP URL.
You're not going to tell your users
to type it into the QuickTime player.
And so that's what the
purpose of the links view is.
And this view will basically
give you a list of everything
that's publicly available.
So it's assumed that your
playlists are publicly available,
of course.
And any of the movies and MP3 files
that you've made available for
streaming or download will show up here.
And so you can see here that...
For example, the losing grip movie
is still highlighted.
And in this display tab,
you can basically explain how it is that
you want this to be embedded in a page.
So for example,
here it's selected that you want
it to open in the QuickTime player.
So it's going to show this custom image.
And when they click on it,
it's going to open a QuickTime player
with that movie playing in it.
Optionally,
I can embed it in the web page,
which would have the same behavior,
except that the movie would
play in the page itself.
Or I can have it autoplay,
so it starts playing
as soon as it's played.
In this case,
I'm going to go ahead and have
it open in the QuickTime player.
And if we look at the bandwidth tab,
you can see that you can
actually create ref movies here.
So you can specify, for example,
that if somebody's on
a broadband connection,
they can see the streaming version.
And if they're not,
then they get the fast start version.
Or maybe you can transcode it to a
lower bit rate or anything like that.
So this is basically
ref movies made easy.
And once you set that up,
you can go to the HTML tab and
What I could do here, for example,
is I can highlight all this stuff,
copy it,
and then I'm going to launch BBEdit
and make the world's simplest web page.
So I'll just do a new HTML document.
I'm not even going to title it,
except that... And just paste that in.
Now if I take that movie off my
desktop and drag it onto Safari,
You can see we have a movie with me.
So that's pretty cool.
I mean,
that takes you the rest of the steps to
getting something actually onto a page.
And not only can you
drag that into BBEdit,
but you can also drag it into Dreamweaver
and GoLive and stuff like that,
and it'll show up right away as--it
actually shows up as an ActiveX control
because it has to be compatible with
Internet Explorer 6 for Windows.
Pay no attention to the
man behind the curtain.
That's one of those demo things.
But yes,
very astute of you to notice that,
actually.
So, that's pretty cool,
but there's another step
that we can go to with this,
which is that you can highlight,
you can multiple select,
or even do a single
select of these links,
and you can click the
Make Web Page button.
And what this will actually do
is this will take that HTML code,
and it will run it through
what's called Apache XSLT,
which means it's
XML Style Sheet Transformations.
It's a well-documented and very
versatile standard for templating,
and it means that while we'll
provide some templates for you,
you can go out and make your own.
And so I can type in a name here.
I can say, like, My Avro Movies.
And so what this will actually
do is make a web page from your
template with the movies in it.
And here's where it's actually
paying attention to the stuff
that I had chosen in that.
[Transcript missing]
Thanks, John.
Okay, so this is stopping point one for
those of you who want to leave.
It's going to get really
boring after this.
John's kind of the
highlight of the show here.
I'm going to talk a little
bit about firewalls.
Firewalls are something that have been
in the past the bane of streaming,
but then things are getting better,
and I can talk to you a little bit
about why firewalls are a problem
and why they're getting better.
I'm going to show you how to work
through the command line a little
bit and then talk about some
troubleshooting and some configuration.
options that you can do there
that you can't do from the UI.
So first firewalls, next, and proxies.
So when we first started
out doing streaming,
QuickTime Streaming Server 1,
We had a hard time getting streams to go
through anything because the firewalls,
it was fairly new stuff.
Firewalls were not
configured to deal with it.
There were not necessarily
proxies around.
NAPs had no idea what
to do with anything.
So we did a few things.
We added the ability to tunnel...
The protocols we use over HTTP,
which is great,
that gets around firewalls and NATs
because they know what to do with HTTP,
but it's not really
the best way to stream.
It's not the way we like to stream.
We like to use the standard protocols.
I want to show you kind of why
these protocols are a problem.
So streaming is comprised of three
protocols typically on the wire.
You've got RTSP,
and that's the protocol that runs on TCP,
runs on ports 554, 70, 70, or 80,
or whatever port the server
is configured to use.
It's a lot like HTTP,
and it's basically just
a way for the player,
the player initiates this to say,
I'd like to watch a movie.
What is the movie?
What does it look like?
Okay, I want to watch these tracks.
Okay, play the movie.
And the way that protocol works is
the client makes a request over TCP,
and the server responds.
And each of those boxes
is a separate request.
It's not one big request like that.
This is typically not a problem
for firewalls because firewalls
are usually configured to allow,
and the firewall I'm referring to is
the firewall that's on the player side.
Firewalls are typically configured to
allow TCP connections from a client
that are initiated from a client
inside your network to work properly.
If the client initiated it,
it's probably safe.
Not all of them, but most of them are.
The problem comes into play
when we get done with the
RTSP and start sending data.
So data gets sent over RTP,
and RTP and RTCP traditionally
run over UDP.
So the problem with UDP versus TCP.
Is that TCP is not connectionless.
It's a protocol that
keeps the connection.
The connection is there.
UDP is connectionless.
When a client initiates a
request to a server via TCP,
that connection stays open
until the client or the
server closes that connection.
And so firewalls,
they're happy with that.
They know where the connection came from.
They know who owns both ends.
And as long as it stays up,
they're happy with it.
The problem with UDP.
Is that it's connectionless.
Every packet you send is
basically a brand new little
mini connection to the server.
So what just happened here is
that the TCP all got through fine.
The streaming server started to
send media tracks and status tracks,
which are via UDP.
And the firewall sees these things
coming in at it bound for that
QT player on port 6970 and up.
And it's like, where did these come from?
It has no idea where it came from.
And so they're just bounced
right off the firewall.
Um.
So that's the really big problem.
Not so problematic is the client
sends back UDP packets to the server.
These are usually not a problem because
the server is not going to have a
firewall that blocks that stuff or
it will be properly configured because
you're doing streaming of course.
But you may have a firewall that
will block outgoing UDP as well.
These status packets contain things like,
things that might be interesting
to the server like...
Which packets the client received,
which ones it missed,
what its average bandwidth was,
what its frame rate was,
things like that.
And you'll see a little bit more of that
when I get into more esoteric topics.
Okay, so kind of to recap firewalls.
So the problem with firewalls is
that RTP and RTCP are sent out
of band from the RTSP connection,
right?
They're sent via UDP,
they're completely separate.
Number one, excellent.
Firewalls consider
those to be unsolicited.
They don't know why anybody would be
sending these to the player because
the firewall has no idea that it
was negotiated out of band via RTSP.
NATs have a different problem.
So what NATs do is they take a single
IP address and then they'll map all of
the traffic coming through that router,
the NAT router,
and redirect it to the proper
client on the back end.
I think most of you
are familiar with NATs.
So what happens is a NAT gets
this UDP packet and it
looks at it and it's like,
I have no idea who to send this to,
so it just drops it.
There are ways to fix this.
One, as I mentioned,
is to stream on port 80.
Other ways to fix that are
to configure your firewall.
The problem with configuring a
firewall is that you basically
have to open up ports 6970 through
6800 or something like that.
For incoming UDP, well,
there's a potential security risk there.
You don't want to just open up
ports and allow packets to come
through that you don't understand.
So what you normally would
do is you'd set up a proxy,
a streaming proxy.
So streaming proxies typically
live in the DMZ on the client
side where the player is.
They understand RTSP, RTP, RTCP,
all of the protocols
involved in streaming.
The server will see the
proxy as just another client.
And the client will see the
proxy as just another server.
So there's no problem
there with compatibility.
And what happens is the proxy
translates the requests from
the client and from the server.
So the server is seeing
the proxy as one client.
The proxy actually acts sort of as a NAT,
basically, a NAT for streaming.
Here's a diagram to make it a
little bit easier to understand,
I think.
So on the left, you've got the streaming
server and the internet.
So this is you.
You're the guys administering the server.
What you need to tell people who can't
stream or sysadmins on that side is
that they need a streaming proxy.
And the proxy lives
right there in the DMZ.
And the DMZ is an area
that the firewall trusts.
So things coming from that proxy
server will be trusted by the firewall
and allowed through to the clients.
Anything that tries to bypass that
streaming proxy or go around the DMZ is
going to hit the firewall and get blocked
because the firewall is going to say,
I don't know who you are,
I don't trust you, goodbye.
That's basically how proxies work.
and how to get around firewalls.
Okay, so this is the second point
where people may want to,
will probably want to
think about leaving.
I'm going to kind of go
through command line options
in QuickTime Streaming Server.
So QuickTime Streaming
Server is comprised of a
bunch of command line tools.
Whenever,
when you see things like the admin app,
the admin that John was showing,
or the QtSS publisher,
or the web-based admin,
all those really are just facades that
are on top of these command line tools.
They just,
all they do is configure those,
configure the config files,
change the options on the command line,
and just execute these tools.
So if you...
I really want to get down and dirty.
There are all kinds of things
you can do in the command line
that you can't do in the GUI,
so I'm going to run through
a few of these briefly.
These are just good things to know.
Probably a lot of it will not
make sense to you right now,
but if you're really doing streaming,
there's going to come a time
when you need to do something,
and this is the information
that will come in handy.
It's not documented completely.
It's not something we put a
lot of effort into documenting.
We're trying to get better.
But we have a mailing list,
and all the engineers
are on that mailing list.
And they're really good
about answering questions,
and we'd actually love to answer.
We love to see people messing
with things like this.
So starting off with the first command
line tool is QuickTime Streaming Server.
So that's the command line tool.
That is the QuickTime Streaming Server,
basically.
And so what I'm showing here is
basically the usage for that tool.
If you were to type
commit QuickTime Streaming
Server dash v for version,
it would show you this.
A couple of things that
are to kind of point out.
So when you're...
QuickTime Streaming
Server normally runs as a daemon,
so the D that you see there, dash D,
running foreground,
that causes it to stay in the foreground,
and in that mode,
QuickTime Streaming Server will
actually generate print
apps out under the terminal,
and you can kind of
watch what's happening.
You can watch more or less,
depending upon some other
changes that you've made,
which I'll show you later.
Dash P allows you to specify which
port you want the server to listen to.
So this is really useful when
somebody's having a problem someplace,
you've got a streaming
server that's up and running,
you don't want to bring it down
to mess around with config files
or do all of this troubleshooting.
You can just say dash P8764,
just pick a random port,
and when you have the client
that you're working with connect
using that port in their URL,
and the server will run off to the side.
It won't have any impact on the
server that's already running,
so you can run multiple servers that way.
And then there are a couple of options
for specifying custom config files.
There's a default
location for config files,
but if you wanted to do some
troubleshooting on the side,
you can tweak the config files
in a different location and then
point the server off to those.
The -s option is actually pretty
interesting if you just kind
of want to monitor your server.
It'll basically just align at a time,
show you how many clients are connected.
I think it shows whether they're
getting packet loss or not,
things like that.
So moving from the command line
options for QuickTime Streaming Server,
I want to go to the config file.
So the config file is XML-based.
It's really modular.
The server's really modular, right?
If you've ever heard any of us talk
about the streaming server before,
it's basically a core server
built with multiple modules.
We've got a module for
doing QuickTime movies.
We've got a module for doing MP3s.
We've got a module for doing
reflections of broadcast.
We have a module for
doing administration.
The XML follows that format,
so each module has its own
little block of configuration.
In the library QuickTime streaming
config directory,
which is the default location
for all the config files,
you'll see a streaming
server XML-sample file,
and that file is
actually fully commented.
The file that the server normally
uses doesn't have comments in it,
so this is kind of some
partial documentation.
You'll find things in there that
you will not even... You have
no hope of understanding,
but probably best not to touch those.
There are over 140 attributes in there,
and most of them don't
need to be touched.
But they come in useful to
different people depending
upon what they're trying to do.
If you do modify a file, a config file,
and you don't want to restart the server,
if you send it a HUP signal,
if you guys are familiar
with using the kill command,
it's kill dash HUP, uppercase like that,
and the process ID of the server.
That will force the server to reread its
preferences and pick up your new changes.
And I have no idea what
those last two lines are.
Well, if you really mess up,
I think I know what it's supposed to say.
So if you really mess
up your config file,
you can delete it and the server will
automatically generate a new one for you.
Misty Edit, I think.
So here's what some of
the attributes look like.
As I said, they're XML.
So this is a sample file,
so it's got the comments in it,
things like auto restart to Boolean,
set it to true if you want the
server to auto restart if it crashes,
although it never crashes.
False if you want it to
just go ahead and die.
The movie folder location,
which you see in the UI,
that's basically what it
looks like in the config file.
Down below you see
some debugging options,
and I'll show you some more
about these things later.
Let you kind of put the server into
modes where it'll kind of show you
more information as it's running.
So here are some of the interesting ones.
So these are kind of things that people
tend to want to play with because they
want to do things we never thought of.
We have a technology called
skip protection in the server,
and one of the things that it does is it
will send media faster than real time.
The reason it does that is it wants
to grow the buffer on the client side.
The reason it wants to do that is
it gives us a lot more time if we
do need to retransmit a packet.
So basically,
it helps to improve the quality.
We have that fixed, we have that capped
right now at 25 seconds.
If you had a reason to put
that down to 10 seconds or up
to a minute or five minutes,
whatever,
that's the value you would change.
The server also runs as
whoever you launch it as.
It needs to be typically launched
as root because it needs to
bind to some low numbered ports.
It needs to bind to port 554, port 80,
and anything under 1024 you
need to be root to bind to.
So what you can do is set both of these,
and this will cause the server,
after it binds to those ports,
to... The problem with being root,
of course, is security problems.
This will cause the server to set
its user ID and its group ID down
to whatever user you specify here,
and this is basically a good
thing to do for security reasons.
Some options for error log verbosity.
The bind IP address option is
actually available in the IP,
or I mean in the admin now.
I don't know why anybody
would ever want to do this,
but before we had instant on,
there used to be like a
minimum three-second buffer,
and we put this in here because
there was a reason for people
to increase that buffer.
Don't ask me why,
but if you ever need to do that,
that's how you do it.
Another component of streaming is the
concept of a blob of text called SDP.
It stands for Session
Description Protocol.
It basically describes the movie.
It's got information about each track,
what format each track is in,
that information.
That information is actually embedded
in a QuickTime movie or an MPEG-4.
If you have some reason to
override that information and don't
want to have to edit the movie,
you just need to do a quick little hack,
then you can turn this option on,
drop in a file named movie name
dot whatever the movie name
is dot SDP that has basically
a full SDP description in it,
and that'll cause the server to
pick that up rather than using the
SDP information out of the movie.
So it's kind of an advanced thing,
but it actually can come
in useful in emergencies.
If you don't want to
generate the SDP by hand,
you can set this option to true,
and this will cause the server,
whenever a movie is requested,
to take the SDP information from the
movie and spit out a little text file.
So that's kind of a quick way to
get the SDP up and running and
then make a little tweak to it.
With both of these options set,
then everything will work
the way you'd like it to.
You can have login,
login GMT time or local time.
For the admin module,
I'm going to show you a little more
about an admin protocol we have later.
The admin protocol only allows local
access right now for security reasons,
so you've got to be on the local
machine to use this protocol.
If you wanted to allow outside access,
you could set the local
access only to false,
and then you could provide a list
of IP addresses that are the only
IP addresses that are allowed to get in,
which is kind of medium security.
And then this last one is
MP3 max flow control time.
So this is basically the size of a
buffer that we use when streaming MP3s.
So if you have problems with MP3 players
kind of going through that rebuffering
thing that they do go through sometimes,
if you increase this value,
that many times will take care of that.
Okay, moving on.
These are a little more esoteric.
They're dropping like flies.
This is awesome.
So when you're using a
broadcaster with the server,
there are a couple of behaviors
that you may or may not like.
There are ways to override those.
So the first one is that if a broadcaster
stops for some reason and there are
a bunch of clients listening to it,
our server will keep those
clients connected so that if
the broadcaster comes back up,
it'll just continue working.
And the only thing the client will
see is just kind of a blank spot,
right?
The stream will stop for a little
bit and then start back up.
You may have a reason to have the
behavior work the opposite way,
which is to actually have all of the
client connections just get dropped
when you stop the broadcaster.
So this is the option that
you would use for that.
Our broadcaster also has the ability
to automatically announce that
it's got a broadcast to the server.
That's on by default.
If you wanted to turn that
off for whatever reason,
typically security,
you could turn that off,
although that is an
authenticated transaction.
So it's kind of minorly secure already,
but this will give you
even more security.
Then another kind of behavior
of the server is that...
If a broadcaster crashes for some reason,
the QuickTime Streaming
Server doesn't necessarily know,
it doesn't immediately assume
that the broadcaster is gone.
It can't.
So what'll happen is that
it'll sit there and wait,
and it'll wait for a
certain amount of time,
and if it doesn't receive any
more data from the broadcaster,
it'll eventually time it out.
Well, that can be a problem.
If you're in the middle of doing a live
broadcast and something bad happens,
you don't have two or
three or four minutes,
whatever that timeout is, to get,
you know, you want to get the broadcaster
back up and running,
and you want it to start
broadcasting again.
What you can do is you
can change this value.
[Transcript missing]
And a little more about firewalls,
so I don't need to talk too
much about the port numbers.
These are the port
numbers that the server,
by default, binds to.
If you wanted to,
you could turn off some of these ports.
The 8054 is the standard RTSP port,
8000 and 8001 are the standard
MP3 broadcasting ports,
and 7070 is kind of a historical
real networks RTSP proxy port number.
And the reason we have that in
here is that back in the old days,
this actually helped us to get through
some of the firewalls because they
were configured for real streaming.
Another important one,
this one will have you pulling your
hair out if it ever happens to you.
So you remember that status from
the client comes back via USB.
So I mentioned that that contains things
like which packets the client received,
which ones it lost.
It also is used for something
else that's really important.
The server uses that to determine
whether the client is still alive or not.
And if a server determines that
a client is no longer alive,
it's going to basically drop its
connection after two or three minutes.
So you can end up with
configurations usually on your end.
If you have a configuration
where you put a round robin
DNS in front of your streaming,
what's going to happen is that that round
robin is going to know what to do with
all of the TCP because it understands,
remember those are
persistent connections,
it knows which end belongs to everybody.
What's going to happen is that
clients are going to start sending
UDP packets at your round robin.
At your round robin DNS machine.
So it's going to get them and it's
not going to know which of your
back end machines to send it to.
So what this option does is it tells,
the streaming servers to actually
embed their own IP address inside
one of the transactions that goes
all the way back to the client.
That'll cause the client to bypass
DNS round robin when it's sending
those status packets and send them
directly around to the server,
which is fine,
it doesn't affect bandwidth
or anything like that,
which is typically why you would
have a DNS round robin set up.
But it makes everything
just magically work.
Bind IP address, we already talked about
that a little bit in the UI.
Don't need to go into that.
OK, so MP3 streaming at the command line.
This is probably something
you are more likely to use.
MP3 streaming, because it's basically for
every broadcast you're doing
or every playlist you're doing,
you're running one copy of this tool.
And so there are,
if you guys are like kind
of savvy Perl scripters,
whatever,
you can actually write your own tools
to kind of start and stop playlists,
manage playlists,
and the command line is really
the way you want to do that.
Some of the options here are...
Let's drop down to the dash X there,
pre-flight configuration.
What that's going to do is that's
actually going to walk through
all of the configuration files and
make sure that those all look okay.
The one underneath that
is check MP3 files.
That's going to do a fast
scan through all of your MP3
files and look for problems.
Corrupt files,
data rates that don't match,
things that will cause them not
to play properly in a player
when you're doing a broadcast,
or when you're doing a playlist, I mean.
Other options are
pretty self-explanatory,
I think.
Configuration files.
So MP3 streaming is comprised of two
required files when you do a broadcast,
a config file and a playlist file.
And then there's some
optional meta files,
and I'll get into each of
these in a little more detail.
So the config file looks like this.
It's got basically a bunch
of the same things you saw
in the command line options.
It's also got things
like your broadcast name,
your mount point,
which is basically the portion
of the URL that a user would
type in after the IP address.
Actually, they wouldn't type it in.
You would use QTSS Publisher,
and it would all be up on your website.
The broadcast password...
Max, upcoming list size.
This will help to control the file
I'm going to explain in just a second.
The bit rate you want to
use for doing pre-flighting,
as it's scanning through
all those MP3 movies,
that's the bit rate it's going to use to
determine whether they're valid or not.
And then the playlist file.
Playlist files are pretty simple.
They're basically just a
list of paths to MP3 files.
In addition, they've got a number
to the right of them,
and that number is the number
that's used when you're doing
weighted random playlists.
Weighted random playlists are
playlists that play randomly,
but the higher a number is,
the higher a weight is on a song,
the more often it'll play.
So you can adjust these numbers
from from 0 to 10 or 1 to 10.
So here are the optional files.
So
[Transcript missing]
There's actually a Macintosh application.
The name is escaping me right now.
Okay, so streaming load tool.
So this is our tool that allows you to...
Put load on a server.
That's what we typically use it for.
It's basically a
QuickTime player simulator.
It doesn't actually show any movies,
but it does all of the networking and
acts just like a real QuickTime player
as far as the server is concerned.
We use it for performance
testing at Apple.
Most people who are deploying big
servers will use it for that as well.
They want to find out how many streams
the server is comfortable with.
We use it for stress testing.
That's how we find a lot of bugs.
We just load it up with as many
streams as we can at one time.
We also use it for protocol testing.
The streaming load tool supports all
of the variations of the RTSP protocols
that QuickTime Streaming Server supports.
We have...
Tunneling over port 80, HTTP,
we've got standard RTSP,
we've got the skip
protection enhancements,
which are standard,
but they're kind of extensions to RTSP,
and so on.
And this simulator supports all of those,
so you can test those protocols.
And it works with servers and proxies,
because it does look just like
a standard streaming client.
This is what the command line
options are pretty straightforward.
Not a whole lot there.
Most of the information that you're going
to modify will be in the config file.
The config file is again text format.
It's not XML,
it's just a key value pair file.
Some of the options you're going to want
to set possibly are the client type.
Reliable UDP is skip protection.
UDP is standard RTSP.
HTTP is tunneling over,
tunneling RTSP over HTTP.
TCP is interleaved RTSP.
Most of you probably
don't care about this.
Number of concurrent clients.
This tool can simulate
more than one client.
So if you wanted to simulate 100 clients,
you would set concurrent clients to 100.
Movie length.
So you might want to control how
long the movie is actually watched.
It may be a 20-minute movie,
but you just want to do a little
10-second test to make sure that
the movie is up and running.
Just set that to 10 seconds.
Run forever means that the
tool just runs forever.
You'd normally use that if
you're doing performance testing.
It's hard to tell how long it's going to
take you to get everything all set up.
So you just get this thing going,
crank it up, and it just runs forever
until you stop it.
The load tool also generates logs,
and these logs contain
all kinds of information.
I'm going to show you one in
a second about what happened
with each of the sessions.
And URLs, of course.
You need to specify which
movies you want to watch.
The load tool can take a list of URLs.
So if you've got 100 movies on your
server and you want to have this
tool walk through every one of them,
just include all 100 URLs in the
config file and it'll do that.
So here's what the output
looks like in the terminal.
So one important thing here is
the checking for streaming load
tool .mov on the target servers.
So what that's saying,
the way streaming load tool works
is that it requires that a movie
with this name is on the server,
otherwise it's not going to run.
And the reason we do that is we
don't want people to take streaming
load tool and just start putting
stress on everybody's servers,
right?
So the only way it'll work is if there's
a movie with this name on your server,
so you need to make sure
of that before you use it.
So it shows you what the options were,
and then it just kind of shows you
every second kind of status until
it gets done and then it's done.
So that's the output there.
And this is the log.
The logs have all kinds
of information in them.
I'm not even sure you guys can
kind of parse through all of that.
It'll show you things
like total packets lost,
duplicate packets,
what the data rate was for the stream,
basically all that stuff.
If there were an error,
it would show you an error.
There's a couldn't
connect to server error.
It's in the middle.
So what this is good for is this makes
it possible for people to write tools
in Perl or shell scripts or whatever
that go off and periodically call
streaming load tool with a preset,
predefined list of URLs.
Those tools can then parse
through this log and then
actually kind of monitor status.
They can send you an email when they see
a problem or they can generate HTML and
show you the status of all your streams.
We've done this at Apple before.
It's actually kind of cool.
So, new in Panther Server,
I talked about a couple of tools
that the QTSS publisher uses.
We have now provided some command line
tools for manipulating QuickTime movies
for internet preparation,
basically.
Qt Media is a new tool.
It allows you to do things
like change the annotations,
make the movie a fast start movie,
add a hint track to the movie, and so on.
It's pretty straightforward.
This is going to be
really good for workflow.
People can set up scripts that do
all of this stuff automatically.
Cron jobs,
you can have the Unix form of a folder
action and have a cron job that watches
folders and automatically hints movies
and shoves them off in the right spot.
Next tool is QtRef,
and this is just a command line
tool for creating ref movies.
So you can do all of this
through the terminal.
If you're at the machine,
I don't know why you'd want to do that,
but if you need to SSH in from a
Windows machine or a Unix machine,
you can still do things with QuickTime.
Okay, so you thought that was boring.
Now it's going to get really esoteric.
So the server's got some
troubleshooting modes.
We use these-- at Apple,
we do a lot of streaming.
We've come across a lot of problems.
As I mentioned, firewall problems.
It's really hard to figure out why
people are not able to get a stream
sometimes or if they're seeing
blips or not good quality video.
We have some modes in the server
that really let you kind of dive
really deep down and kind of
troubleshoot these problems.
They're basically what you
would see in a packet sniffer,
but we format things because we
understand what the protocol is.
We format them into a,
I don't want to say human readable,
but engineer readable format.
So here are a couple of them.
You can turn on RTSP debug printf.
So remember,
you saw all of the negotiation
between the server and the client.
I want to watch this movie.
What does it look like?
Back and forth, the TCP thing.
This will just kind of dump all of
that to the terminal as it's happening.
You can kind of monitor those things.
Packet header printf.
This will print packet headers for
all of the RTP and the RTCP packets.
We don't print, obviously,
the media from the RTP packets
because it wouldn't be very useful.
And then you can,
the options here let you specify
which of those things you want to see.
If you turn ACK off,
you'll get far fewer packets.
I'm going to kind of show
you how that works now.
Just so you can see how horrendous it is.
Flip over to the demo machine.
So I'm going to...
I'm going to cheat a little bit.
I'm not going to type
the entire command in.
But basically what I'm doing is launching
the... You guys see that okay up there?
No.
I'll highlight each thing.
So, sudo, as you may not know,
is just a way to run things
basically as super user without
actually becoming super user.
QuickTime Streaming Server is
the command I'm running.
I want to run this server using a
config file that I have modified,
and I've turned on those
options that I just showed you.
I'm running in debug mode, dash D.
And I've already got a server
running on this machine.
I don't want to interrupt that one,
so I'm going to tell it to actually
do all of its streaming on port 8765.
So let me start it up.
I'm asking for my root password
because of the sudo command.
So the server's running,
and I'm going to show you what happens
when you connect a client with all
of these debugging options turned on.
It's very fun.
So can you guys read that?
Do you know what it means?
Anyway, basically the point here is to
show you that there is all kinds
of information coming out of there.
So let me flip back to the slides.
I'll kind of show you just a little
bit of some of the information that...
comes through.
Slide.
Unless you guys were still watching that.
Okay, so you probably couldn't see it
because it went by way too fast,
so here's what RTSP looks like.
This is the output that you'll get
when you put it into this mode,
showing you the output.
IP of the server,
showing you the port that the
client connected to on the server,
7070 in this case,
which is a little interesting.
Maybe that's part of the
problem somebody's having.
Shows you the port that
the client's using,
not all that important.
The URL they used.
Shows you the bandwidth.
The bandwidth here is 2
billion and something.
Basically, that means that they've
got it set to LAN.
It's set to the highest
bandwidth possible.
If they had their
QuickTime player set to modem,
it would say whatever modem rate
QuickTime player sends back.
That can be useful when people
are complaining about not
getting high quality content.
Maybe they've left their
QuickTime player set to modem speed.
Look at that and you can tell
immediately what happened.
Also, in the user agent field,
you can tell what version
of QuickTime they've got.
You can tell which OS they're running on,
which CPU, things like that,
and that can be really useful when
you're trying to troubleshoot as well.
The response from Describe
has a couple of little,
it's a little less interesting
when you're troubleshooting,
but let's just kind of walk,
go through the red ones here.
That X accept retransmit, R retransmit,
that basically tells you that
the server and the client have
agreed to do skip protection.
If you don't see that in the response,
then it means that they're not
going to get skip protection,
and they're probably not going
to get instant on as well.
So this could help,
won't tell you what the problem is,
but it can kind of get you closer
to determining what the problem is.
All of that information,
starting with the V equals sign and
all the way down to the red MPEG,
that's the SDP information
I was talking about.
So this is the description
of each track of the movie,
the format of the movie,
all that kind of stuff.
Not that useful for
troubleshooting usually,
but sometimes.
Setup request is a request that the
client makes after-- so the first request
it makes is that describe you saw,
which is basically the
client saying to the server,
tell me about this movie at this URL.
Comes back, client looks through all
of that SDP information,
and it decides which
tracks it wants to play.
It doesn't have to play them all.
And then it sends a setup request for
each track that it would like to play.
So if you look at the setup request,
look at the red areas.
Track-- it's saying here that I want
track three of the sample 300k bit movie.
Another important thing is that
it's telling you which ports that
it would like you to send media to.
This can help you dealing
with firewall issues.
This is the client telling the server,
"Send data to me on these ports via UDP."
And then,
it won't help with troubleshooting,
but in the response there
you'll see this X random data,
and then underneath that
you're going to see about 1400
bytes worth of random data.
Don't be disturbed by that.
So basically what that is,
that's part of our skip protection
technology and the instant on technology.
We do some active bandwidth measurement,
and this is one of the ways we
kind of determine bandwidth.
We kind of send this random
probe packet out there,
and then we measure the
time it takes to get back,
and that helps us to determine bandwidth.
Okay, so that's RTSP.
Now, RTCP, these are the status packets
that go back and forth.
These are coming from the client.
How do I know that?
It says app right there.
It's got all kinds of information in it.
Some of it useful, some of it not.
But it's going to show you.
And these things come over often,
every five seconds to
30 seconds or whatever.
It depends on basically which
player you're talking to.
It'll show you the bit
rate of the client,
the number of packets received,
the number of packets dropped.
And you can kind of monitor these
things in real time if you wanted to.
It's a little difficult.
You'd probably have to write a
tool that actually parsed all
this output and monitored things.
It's a little difficult.
You'd probably have to write a
tool that actually parsed all
this output and monitored things.
So the server supports a protocol
that lets you talk to it directly via
HTTP to set and get its attributes
and to get basically its status.
The server is an object-oriented.
It's written in C++ inside the server.
If you know anything about programming,
there are all kinds of objects,
and there's this whole
hierarchy of values that you
can grab out of the server.
Because it's HTTP-based, though,
it's really easy to write tools over it.
You just send HTTP requests,
you get data back,
you can parse through it,
do whatever you want with it.
That's what we use for the web admin.
Web admin makes requests,
parses it all out, generates HTML,
and then puts it up on a web page.
The easiest way to deal with it is
probably to use Curl for a web browser.
If you want to just kind of
look at things really quickly
without writing a tool.
And you use port 554 for this.
It's pretty straightforward, though.
Here's what a request looks like.
It's authenticated,
so you need to provide
a username and password,
and then your host name,
and then an attribute path.
So, as I said, the server's very modular
and object-oriented.
This is kind of the standard path to get
to an attribute that belongs to this,
actually to the server itself.
So, modules, admin, server, movie folder.
Here are some Curl commands.
I'm going to actually go over and
do a couple of them over here.
That's what commands would look like.
That star that you see there,
we can flip back over here.
Thank you.
So first let me kind of show you curl.
So curl is basically just a command line,
like,
Client for making requests.
It can do HTTP, FTP.
I mean, what it does is it just
returns things in raw format.
It doesn't try to format it at all.
So if I were to curl
www.apple.com in a new terminal,
because I spewed too
much stuff into that one.
I'm going to get back
Apple's website in HTML form.
So that's basically what curl does.
I'll clean that up.
So if I wanted to talk to
streaming admin server,
I would use curl,
use the format that I talked about.
Now, notice at the end I put a star.
Star is a wild card.
That means show me everything
inside the server object.
I hit that.
It's going to ask me for the password.
There is all kinds of stuff in here.
Some of this is
If you're familiar with
the QuickTime Streaming
Server programming APIs,
you probably understand
what some of these are.
I'm sure most of you are not.
It's showing me all
kinds of things in here.
The current bandwidth of the server,
the total connections that it's
ever served since it's come up,
the current bandwidth.
If I really wanted to get...
A server client sessions.
I'm still using the wildcard
there because I want to
see all of the sessions.
And I probably don't have
any because I think our...
Yes, it didn't find any.
So basically with that,
I'm not going to continue because
I think this is probably not
that interesting to people,
but it would show you a list of
all of the current connections.
They would all have an
ID attached to them,
and then if I wanted
to dive down further,
I could say, okay,
I want to see session number X.
It would show you all the
attributes for that connection.
So you can remotely monitor your server,
remotely troubleshoot your server,
and actually look at what's happening
on the server with all of the clients.
Okay, how many people are asleep?
Okay,
so kind of closing things down here.
So for more information,
we've got the roadmap here.
A couple of QuickTime sessions,
720 and 722.
They did cancel the session Wi-Fi and 3G.
Let the Games Begin has been canceled.
Tomorrow, if you want to be probably
a little bit less bored,
but it is definitely more technical,
the QuickTime Streaming
Server programming session
is going to happen tomorrow.
If you're an open source programmer
that wants to learn about modules,
you should show up.
If you just want to know where to start
when you're working on the server,
our open source project is available
to you to modify as much as you like,
as long as you abide by
Apple's open source license.
John Murata,
our lead engineer on the server,
is going to go through the entire
architecture of the server and
kind of walk you through how to get
started on actually modifying the
actual source code on the server.
We've got a bunch of QuickTime sessions.
Kind of one to note is the producer
listening party with QuickTime.
You're going to see probably a
little more QTSS publisher there,
and John's going to do an MP3
playlist that actually works,
I think.
[Transcript missing]
If you need to contact anybody
about QuickTime Streaming Server,
anything QuickTime,
QuickTimeMan@apple.com.
Guillermo Ortiz is your man.
Documentation.
I don't see it on here.
Let me back up.
Okay, I won't back up.
But if you're not aware of this,
we have a couple of mailing
lists for the streaming server.
We have a user's mailing list and
we have a developer's mailing list.
The developer's mailing list is
mainly for people who are actually
doing coding on the server,
writing plugins, although a lot of
administrators are there too.
And then the user playlist is
more for system administrators and
people who are deploying the server.
Go to lists.apple.com,
just search for streaming, and subscribe.
They're great lists.
They have massive amounts
of good information.
Browse the archives if you want
to see what I'm talking about.
And we're all on the lists and we
try to be as responsive as we can.